docs(ckb-indexer): add ckb-indexer doc to introduction ckb-indexer (#253)
nervosnetwork/lumos: packages/ckb-indexer/README.md

CKB indexer used in lumos framework. Might be possible for independent usage as well. It is based on  [ckb-indexer](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-indexer) and export more interface.

The indexer is designed to consume from the following sources:

- Run on the web side.

> - Queries of CKB's RPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CKB indexer is based on  [ckb-indexer](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-indexer) with more features. It is designed for:
- Web client usage.
- CKB's RPC query.
```

## **Usage**

### **Indexer**

```jsx
const { Indexer } = require("@ckb-lumos/ckb-indexer");
const nodeUri = "https://testnet.ckb.dev/rpc";
const indexUri = "https://testnet.ckb.dev/indexer";
const indexer = new Indexer(indexUri, nodeUri);
```

### **CellCollector**

To query existing cells, you can create a CellCollector:

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    hash_type: "data",
    args: "0x62e907b15cbf27d5425399ebf6f0fb50ebb88f18",
  },
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

> You can also specify both `lock` and `type` script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify `lock` or `type` script as constraints for advance search:
```

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    args: "0x92aad3bbab20f225cff28ec1d856c6ab63284c7a",
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
  },
  type: {
    args: "0x",
    code_hash:
      "0x82d76d1b75fe2fd9a27dfbaa65a039221a380d76c926f378d3f81cf3e7e13f2e",
    hash_type: "type",
  },
});
```

> Range query for cells between given block_numbers is supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query cells in certain block_numbers range (`fromBlock` and `toBlock` are included):
```

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323",
  },
  fromBlock: "0x225510", // "0x" + 2250000n.toString(16)
  toBlock: "0x225ce0", // "0x" + 2252000n.toString(16)
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

> It will fetch cells between `[fromBlock, toBlock]`, which means both `fromBlock` and `toBlock` are included in query range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Page jump when query cells is supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skip a certain number of query results, e.g. the below code snippet means it would skip the first 100 cells and return from the 101st one
```

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323",
  },
  skip: 100,
});

for await (const tx of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(tx);
}
```

> The `skip` field represents the number of cells being skipped, which in the above code snippet means it would skip the first 100 cells and return from the 101st one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323",
  },
  fromBlock: "0x253b40", // "0x" + 2440000n.toString(16)
  toBlock: "0x253f28", // "0x" + 2441000n.toString(16)
  order: "desc", // default option is "asc"
  skip: 300,
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

Prefix search is supported on `args`. The default `argsLen` is -1, which means you pass the full slice of original args, and you can specify it when the `args` field is the prefix of original args.

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df3", // truncate the last byte of orignal args: 0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323
  },
  argsLen: 20, // default option is -1
  fromBlock: "0x253b40", // "0x" + 2440000n.toString(16)
  toBlock: "0x253f28", // "0x" + 2441000n.toString(16)
  order: "desc", // default option is "asc"
  skip: 300,
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

> You can also set it as `any` when the argsLen of the field args might have multiple possibilities, for example, lock script's args could be 20 in normal scenario and 28 in multisig scenario, or any other length in customized scenarios. However, there's some performance lost when use `any` rather than explicitly specified length due to the low-level implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set it as `any` when the argsLen has multiple possibilities. For example, lock script's args is 20 in normal scenario and 28 in multisig scenario, or any other length in customized scenarios. However, there's some performance lost when use `any` rather than explicitly specified length due to the low-level implementation.
```

Reviewer: What performance lost?

Author: This is a copy from native indexer. after check the source code, I think there is no need those words, I'll delete it

Author: > What performance lost?

This is a copy from native indexer. after check the source code, I think there is no need those words, I'll delete it

  toBlock: "0x253f28", // "0x" + 2441000n.toString(16)
  order: "desc", // default option is "asc"
  skip: 300,
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

Fine grained query for cells can be achieved by using [ScriptWrapper](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/cd418d258085d3cb6ab47eeaf5347073acf5422e/packages/base/index.d.ts#L123), with customized options like `argsLen`:

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    script: {
      code_hash:
        "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
      hash_type: "type",
      args: "0xe60f7f88c94ef365d540afc1574c46bb017765", // trucate the last byte of original args: 0xe60f7f88c94ef365d540afc1574c46bb017765a2
    },
    argsLen: 20,
  },
  type: {
    script: {
      code_hash:
        "0x82d76d1b75fe2fd9a27dfbaa65a039221a380d76c926f378d3f81cf3e7e13f2e",
      hash_type: "type",
      args: "0x",
    },
    // when the `argsLen` is not setted here, it will use the outside `argsLen` config, which in this case is -1 by default
  },
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

> `outputDataLenRange` is support to filter cell by data length, `outputCapacityRange` is support to filter cell by capacity。you can use as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`outputDataLenRange` for filtering cell by data length, and `outputCapacityRange` for filtering cell by capacity:
```

```jsx
cellCollector = new CellCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7d", // truncate the last two bytes of original args: 0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323
  },
  outputDataLenRange: [0x0, 0x160],
  outputCapacityRange: [0x10000, 0x100000],
});

for await (const cell of cellCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(cell);
}
```

> we will not return block_hash in the result, if you need block_hash, please give the following query options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To return block_hash in the result, add the following query options:
```

```jsx
const otherQueryOptions: OtherQueryOptions = {
    withBlockHash: true,
    ckbRpcUrl: nodeUri,
  };
  const cellCollector = new CellCollector(
    indexer,
   { lock: type }
   otherQueryOptions
  );
```

### **TransactionCollector**

> Similar solution can be used to query for transactions related to a lock script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar usage for quering transactions:
```

```jsx
txCollector = new TransactionCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    hash_type: "data",
    args: "0x62e907b15cbf27d5425399ebf6f0fb50ebb88f18",
  },
  CKBRpcUrl,
});

for await (const tx of txCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(tx);
}
```

> Range query for transactions between given block_numbers is supported:

Reviewer: Just cpoy the above comments

        "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
      hash_type: "type",
      args: "0xe60f7f88c94ef365d540afc1574c46bb017765", // trucate the last byte of original args: 0xe60f7f88c94ef365d540afc1574c46bb017765a2
    },
    ioType: "both",
    argsLen: 20, // when the `argsLen` is not setted here, it will use the outside `argsLen` config
  },
  type: {
    script: {
      code_hash:
        "0x82d76d1b75fe2fd9a27dfbaa65a039221a380d76c926f378d3f81cf3e7e13f2e",
      hash_type: "type",
      args: "0x",
    },
    ioType: "input",
  },
});

for await (const tx of txCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(tx);
}
```

The `ioType` field is among `input | output | both`.

```jsx
txCollector = new TransactionCollector(indexer, {
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7d", // truncate the last two bytes of original args: 0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323
  },
  outputDataLenRange: [0x0, 0x160],
  outputCapacityRange: [0x10000, 0x100000],
});

for await (const tx of txCollector.collect()) {
  console.log(tx);
}
```

> `outputDataLenRange` is support to filter cell by data length, `outputCapacityRange` is support to filter cell by capacity。you can use as below.

Reviewer: Put this sentence above the code

### **EventEmitter**

> Event-driven pattern is also supported besides the above polling pattern. After subsribing for certain `lock|type` script, it will emit a `changed` event when a block containing the subsribed script is indexed or rollbacked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides polling pattern, event-driven pattern is also supported. After subsribing for certain `lock|type` script, it will emit a `changed` event when a block containing the subsribed script is indexed or rollbacked.
```

> The principle of the design is unreliable notification queue, so developers are supposed to pull from the data sources via `CellCollector|TransactionCollector`, to find out what might happened: cell consumed, new cell generated, new transaction generated, or a chain fork happened, etc; and take the next step accordingly.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence.

Author: EventEmitter is a event-driven design. we can listen event change first and do some thing after event triggerd. 
this sentence is hard to understand cause `polling pattern` `unreliable notification queue`  and some word appear.
I suggest we can change this sentence to
 you can find out  cell consumed,new cell generated,new transaction generated and so on by listen to EventEmitter

Reviewer: Sure! We can change like that.

```jsx
eventEmitter = indexer.subscribe({
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7df323",
  },
});

eventEmitter.on("changed", () => {
  console.log(
    "States changed with the script, please pull the data sources from the indexer to find out what happend"
  );
});
```

Other query options like `fromBlock|argsLen|data` are also supported.

```jsx
eventEmitter = indexer.subscribe({
  lock: {
    code_hash:
      "0x9bd7e06f3ecf4be0f2fcd2188b23f1b9fcc88e5d4b65a8637b17723bbda3cce8",
    hash_type: "type",
    // the args bytes length is 18, truncate the last 2 bytes.
    args: "0xa528f2b9a51118b193178db4cf2f3db92e7d",
  },
  // default value is -1
  argsLen: 20,
  // default value is "any"
  data: "0x",
  // default value is 0
  fromBlock: 0x3e8, // "0x" + 1000n.toString(16)
});
```

Listen to median time change when blocks changed.

```jsx
const medianTimeEmitter = indexer.subscribeMedianTime();
medianTimeEmitter.on("changed", (medianTime) => {
  console.log(medianTime);
});
```

## **Migration**

> if you want to migrate native indexer to ckb-indexer please check more detail in our [migration docs](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/develop/packages/ckb-indexer/mirgation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to migrate native indexer to ckb-indexer, please check more detail in our [migration docs](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/develop/packages/ckb-indexer/mirgation.md)
```
